_docs/01-concepts/04-esp-js-di/03-object-registration.md, before:

---
title: Object Registration 
permalink: /concepts/esp-js-di/object-registration/
---

{% capture info_1 %}
JavaScript doesn't have a type system which makes containers a little cumbersome to use. 
Typically in typed languages you'd utilise information provided by the type system to aid in dependency resolution and injection.
However without such a system all is not lost, we can simply use strings (i.e. 'identifiers') to identify objects to construct.
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout-info.html content=info_1 %}

You can register an object using one of three methods:

* `container.register(identifier, Item)`.

  This registers either a constructor function OR an object prototype `Item` using the given string `identifier`.

  You can chain calls to alter the registration settings:
  
  ```javascript
    let identifier = 'itemKey1';
    container
        .register('identifier', Item)
        .inject('otherDependencyIdentifier1', 'otherDependencyIdentifier1')
        .singletonPerContainer()
        .inGroup('mySimilarObjects');
  ```

  Here we register `Item` using the string `identifier`. 
  We state that it requires dependencies `otherDependencyIdentifier1` and `otherDependencyIdentifier1`. 
  It's [lifetime management](./06-lifetime-management.md) is `singletonPerContainer`.
  It can be resolved using the `identifier` or as part of the [group](./04-object-resolution.md#resolve-groups) `mySimilarObjects`. 
  
* `container.registerInstance(identifier, objectInstance)`.

  You can use `registerInstance` to register an existing instance with the given string `identifier`.
    
* `container.registerFactory(identifier, factory)`.

  This registers a creation factory using the given string `identifier`. 
  The factory is a function that must return a new object instance. 
  The factory will receive the current container as a first parameter.
  Any additional arguments passed during the `resolve` call will be passed to the factory.
  
  ```javascript
    container
        .registerFactory('fooId', (container, ...additionalDependencies) => {
              let fooDependency = container.resolve('fooDependencyId');  
              return new Foo(fooDependency, ...additionalDependencies);
        })
        .transient();
    
    let foo = container.resolve('fooId', 1, 2, 3);
  ```
  
  Here we register a factory that will resolve a `Foo`. 
  We then resolve an instance (`foo`) passing some additional arguments. 
  Our creation factory resolves an additional dependency, then passes this dependency, plus the additional dependencies `1, 2, 3` to `Foo`s constructor and returns it.
  It's registered using a transient scope so each time you resolve it, the factor will be invoked to resolve a new `Foo` instance. 
  

{% capture info_2 %}
We need to manually specify objects dependencies at registration time. 
This is because there are no means available to inspect arguments required for `constructors` or `init` methods at object instantiation/initialisation time.
We specify dependencies via `inject`
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout-info.html content=info_2 %}

Commit message:

Removing draft polimer docs
adding docs for esp-js-di dependency resolvers

_docs/01-concepts/04-esp-js-di/03-object-registration.md, after:

---
title: Object Registration 
permalink: /concepts/esp-js-di/object-registration/
---

{% capture info_1 %}
JavaScript doesn't have a type system which makes containers a little cumbersome to use. 
Typically in typed languages you'd utilise information provided by the type system to aid in dependency resolution and injection.
However without such a system all is not lost, we can simply use strings (i.e. 'identifiers') to identify objects to construct.
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout-info.html content=info_1 %}

You can register an object using one of three methods:

* `container.register(identifier, Item)`.

  This registers either a constructor function OR an object prototype `Item` using the given string `identifier`.

  You can chain calls to alter the registration settings:
  
  ```javascript
    let identifier = 'itemKey1';
    container
        .register('identifier', Item)
        .inject('otherDependencyIdentifier1', 'otherDependencyIdentifier1')
        .singletonPerContainer()
        .inGroup('mySimilarObjects');
  ```

  Here we register `Item` using the string `identifier`. 
  We state that it requires dependencies `otherDependencyIdentifier1` and `otherDependencyIdentifier1`. 
  It's [lifetime management](./06-lifetime-management.md) is `singletonPerContainer`.
  It can be resolved using the `identifier` or as part of the [group](./04-object-resolution.md#resolve-groups) `mySimilarObjects`. 
  
  In most cases, the argument you pass to `inject()` will be a string identifying another dependency. 
  The container internally calls these 'dependency keys'.
  There are more advanced cases where these dependency keys can be objects which reference other code to create the item required for injection.
  See [dependency resolvers](./08-dependency-resolvers.md);

* `container.registerInstance(identifier, objectInstance)`.

  You can use `registerInstance` to register an existing instance with the given string `identifier`.
    
* `container.registerFactory(identifier, factory)`.

  This registers a creation factory using the given string `identifier`. 
  The factory is a function that must return a new object instance. 
  The factory will receive the current container as a first parameter.
  Any additional arguments passed during the `resolve` call will be passed to the factory.
  
  ```javascript
    container
        .registerFactory('fooId', (container, ...additionalDependencies) => {
              let fooDependency = container.resolve('fooDependencyId');  
              return new Foo(fooDependency, ...additionalDependencies);
        })
        .transient();
    
    let foo = container.resolve('fooId', 1, 2, 3);
  ```
  
  Here we register a factory that will resolve a `Foo`. 
  We then resolve an instance (`foo`) passing some additional arguments. 
  Our creation factory resolves an additional dependency, then passes this dependency, plus the additional dependencies `1, 2, 3` to `Foo`s constructor and returns it.
  It's registered using a transient scope so each time you resolve it, the factor will be invoked to resolve a new `Foo` instance. 
  

{% capture info_2 %}
We need to manually specify objects dependencies at registration time. 
This is because there are no means available to inspect arguments required for `constructors` or `init` methods at object instantiation/initialisation time.
We specify dependencies via `inject`
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout-info.html content=info_2 %}
